Announcing Hanami v2.0.0.alpha6 (#540)
hanami/hanami.github.io: source/blog/2022-02-10-announcing-hanami-200alpha6.html.markdown

---
title: Announcing Hanami v2.0.0.alpha6
date: 2022-02-10 11:04:32 UTC
tags: announcements
author: Luca Guidi
image: true
excerpt: >

>   Hanami Container Providers, Partial Slice Import/Export. Ruby 3.0+ only.

Reviewer: I think we could probably just call them "Providers" rather than "Container providers"? It really depends on how forward we want to be with the "container" terminology when we describe the framework to our users.

Reviewer: Certainly "Container providers" is _not_ the correct term for them if we were talking about them at a dry-system level. They're just "providers".

Author: Named Hanami Providers: https://github.com/hanami/hanami.github.io/pull/540/commits/b04ef3d1b2ce9f44a45ff8e2505a161f4dc75349

---

Hello Hanami community! We're thrilled to announce the release of Hanami 2.0.0.alpha6!

> With this new cycle of monthly based releases we have smaller set of changes, but delivered more frequently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this new cycle of monthly based releases we have a smaller set of changes, but delivered more frequently.
```

## Hanami Container enhancements

This month we focused mainly on the internals of the framework.
The work that Tim Riley is doing is epic.

> Hanami 2 is modeled around `dry-system`, which powers the booting process and the dependencies of an app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hanami 2 is modeled around dry-system, which powers the booting process and the dependencies of an app.
```

We don't code-format our gem names :)

### Providers

First thing first, **we renamed _bootable compontents_ into _providers_**.

> This change was reflected into the public API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This change was reflected in the public API.
```

> We also changed provider `init` into `prepare`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also renamed the provider `init` lifecycle step to `prepare`.
```

Thought I'd introduce the actual term "lifecycle step" here since it'll be an important part of how we describe these.

```ruby

> Hanami.application.register_provider(:metrics) do
>   prepare do
>     require "datadog/statsd"
> 
>     # see application's config/settings.rb
>     @settings = settings.statsd
>   end
> 
>   start do
>     register "metrics", Datadog::Statsd.new(@settings.host, @settings.port)
>   end
> 
>   stop do
>     # triggered when the application is shut down
>     metrics.close
>   end
> end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hanami.application.register_provider(:metrics) do
  prepare do
    require "datadog/statsd"
  end

  start do
    # See application's config/settings.rb
    settings = target[:settings].statsd

    register "metrics", Datadog::Statsd.new(settings.host, settings.port)
  end

  stop do
    # triggered when the application is shut down
    metrics.close
  end
end
```

Turned it into something that'd actually work in theory :) And dropped the ivar as a way to share state between the steps since I think that's more of an advanced usage and felt more likely to confuse readers here than otherwise.

```

```ruby
module API
  module Actions
    module Users
      class Create < API::Action

>         include Deps["metrics"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        include Deps["application.metrics"]
```

Unless you registered the metrics provider with the "API" slice (which we're not doing in the example above), this'd be how it'd be available to slices.

        def handle(req, res)
          # ...
          metrics.increment("user.create")
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

### Partial Slice Import/Export

> A Slice in your application can be used to provide a single responsility functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Slice in your application can be used to provide a single responsibility functionality.
```

Reviewer 2: ...but to be honest, I wouldn't refer to "single responsibility" and just say something like "a single piece of functionality"

> Imagine **like a microservices approach in your monolith**, but without the complexity!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can think of it as having **microservices in your monolith** but without the complexity!
```

> For instance, the `search` Slice can expose the search functionalities to other slices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For instance, the `search` Slice can expose the search functionality to other slices.
```

    config.slice(:admin) do
      import(from: :search, as: :search_engine)
    end
  end
end
```

Import specific keys from `search` slice

```ruby
# config/application.rb

module MyApp
  class Application < Hanami::Application
    config.slice(:admin) do
      import(keys: ["run_query"], from: :search)
    end
  end
end
```

Export only specific keys from `search` slice, and import them in `admin`

```ruby
# config/application.rb

module MyApp
  class Application < Hanami::Application
    config.slice(:admin) do
      import(from: :search)
    end

    config.slice(:search) do
      container.config.exports = %w[run_query index_item]
    end
  end
end
```

## Ruby 3.0+ only

We took this decision for a clear cut with the past of Ruby.
At the time of the writing (Feb 2022), Ruby 2.6 will reach [End Of Life](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/branches/) (EOL) in a month.
It didn't make sense to still support it.

We want further than that, given the opportunity that we have with Hanami 2 to "start fresh" with the Ruby versions to support.
We opted for taking 2.7 out as well.

There are a few inconsistencies that have been fixed in Ruby 3.0.

> And we want to get advantage of those.

Reviewer 2: This should be a single sentence and probably changed to something like this:

"There are a few inconsistencies that have been fixed in Ruby 3.0 and we want to take advantage of this."

Author: Fixed: https://github.com/hanami/hanami.github.io/pull/540/commits/cf6a23417dad05fc74fe2aa23eec4bb752bebfe8

## What’s included?

Today we’re releasing the following gems:

- `hanami` v2.0.0.alpha6
- `hanami-cli` v2.0.0.alpha6
- `hanami-view` v2.0.0.alpha6
- `hanami-controller` v2.0.0.alpha6
- `hanami-router` v2.0.0.alpha6
- `hanami-utils` v2.0.0.alpha6

## How can I try it?

> You can check out our [Hanami 2 application template](https://github.com/hanami/hanami-2-application-template), which is up to date for this latest release and ready for you to use out as the starting point for your own app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can check out our [Hanami 2 application template](https://github.com/hanami/hanami-2-application-template), which is up to date with this latest release and ready for you to use as the starting point for your own app.
```

> We’d really love for you to give the tires a good kick for this release in this particular: the more real-world testing we can have of our code loading changes, the better!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’d really love for you to give the tires a good kick for this release in particular: the more real-world testing we can have of our code loading changes, the better!
```

## What’s coming next?

> Thank you as ever for your support of Hanami! We can’t wait to hear from you about this release, and we’re looking forward to checking in with you again next month. 🙇🏻‍♂️🌸

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thank you as always for supporting Hanami! We can’t wait to hear from you about this release, and we’re looking forward to checking in with you again next month. 🙇🏻‍♂️🌸
```
